.TH AXCTL 8 "2 August 1996" Linux "Linux System Managers Manual"
.SH NAME
axctl \- Configure/Kill running AX.25 connections.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B axctl [-v] port dest src window|t1|t2|t3|n2|idle|paclen|kill [parm]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The
.B axctl
command is designed to be a multi-function command that allows miscellaneous
commands to be issued to the Linux AX.25 protocol layer for existing AX.25
connections. The connection is uniquely identified via the combination of
port, destination callsign and source callsign, with that information the
kernel is able to change the parameters, or abort the connection.
.LP
Many of the options are similar to those found in
.B axparms
and perform the same function. Only one parameter may be changed on each
invokation of
.B axctl.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 20
.BI \-v
Displays the version number.
.TP 20
.BI "window window"
Sets the window size for the AX.25 connection.
.TP 20
.BI "t1 t1\-timeout"
Sets the initial T1 timeout value for the AX.25 connection, the value is given in
seconds.
.TP 20
.BI "t2 t2\-timeout"
Sets the T2 timeout value for the AX.25 connection, the value is given in
seconds.
.TP 20
.BI "t3 t3\-timeout"
Sets the T3 timeout value for the AX.25 connected, the value is given in
seconds.
.TP 20
.BI "n2 n2\-count"
Sets the maximum number of tries for the AX.25 connection.
.TP 20
.BI "idle idle-timeout"
Sets the value for the idle timer for the AX.25 connection, the value is in
minutes.
.TP 20
.BI "paclen paclength"
Sets the maximum packet length that may be transmitted on the AX.25
connection.
.TP 20
.BI "kill"
Will abort an existing AX.25 connection.
.SH FILES
.LP
/etc/ax25/axports
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR call (1),
.BR getsockopt (2),
.BR setsockopt (2),
.BR ax25 (4),
.BR axparms (8),
.BR axports (5).
.SH AUTHORS
.nf
Joerg Reuter DL1BKE <jreuter@poboxes.com>
.fi
