.\" Copyright 1996 Thomas Sailer (t.sailer@alumni.ethz.ch)
.\" May be distributed under the GNU General Public License
.\" "
.TH BAYCOM 9 "2 October 1996" "Linux 2.1.x" "Kernel Reference Guide"
.SH NAME
baycom \- amateur (AX.25) packet radio network driver for baycom modems
.SH SYNOPSIS

.nf
.B #include <linux/baycom.h>
.B #include <linux/hdlcdrv.h>
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
The driver currently supports three different modems: ser12, par96 and
par97.
.SS ser12
This is a very simple 1200 baud AFSK modem. The modem consists only
of a modulator/demodulator chip, usually a TI TCM3105. The computer
is responsible for regenerating the receiver bit clock. The modem 
connects to a serial port, hence the name. Since the serial port is
not used as an async serial port, the kernel driver for serial ports
cannot be used, and this driver only supports standard serial 
hardware (8250, 16450, 16550).
.SS par96
This is a modem for 9600 baud FSK compatible to the G3RUH standard.
The modem does all the filtering and regenerates the receiver clock.
Data is transferred from and to the PC via a shift register.
The shift register is filled with 16 bits and an interrupt is
signalled. The PC then empties the shift register in a burst. This
modem connects to the parallel port, hence the name.
.SS par97
This is a redesign of the par96 modem by Henning Rech, DF9IC. The
modem is protocol compatible to par96, but uses only three low
power ICs and can therefore be fed from the parallel port and
does not require an additional power supply.

.SH "IOCTL CALLS"
The \fBioctl\fP calls follow the implementation in the \fIhdlcdrv\fP.

.TP
.B BAYCOMCTL_GETMODEMTYPE
returns the modem type (i.e. \fIser12\fP or \fIpar96\fP) and the 
options in effect (currently only the source of the DCD signal)
.TP
.B BAYCOMCTL_SETMODEMTYPE
sets the modem type and the options. Only superuser can do this.
.TP
.B BAYCOMCTL_GETDEBUG
return some debugging values. Not always available.


.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR baycom " (9), " soundmodem " (9),"
linux/drivers/net/hdlcdrv.c,

.SH AUTHOR
baycom was written by Thomas Sailer, HB9JNX/AE4WA, (t.sailer@alumni.ethz.ch).




