.TH AX25IPD.CONF 5 "7 July 1997" Linux "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
ax25ipd.conf \- Control the operation of ax25ipd.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The
.B ax25ipd.conf
file controls the operation of the ax25ipd(8) program. The operation of the
config file can best be seen in an example:
.LP
#
.br
# ax25ipd configuration file for station floyd.vk5xxx.ampr.org
.br
#
.br
# Select axip transport. 'ip' is what you want for compatibility
.br
# with most other gates ...
.br
#
.br
socket ip
.br
#
.br
# Set ax25ipd mode of operation. (digi or tnc)
.br
#
.br
mode tnc
.br
#
.br
# If you selected digi, you must define a callsign.  If you selected
.br
# tnc mode, the callsign is currently optional, but this may change
.br
# in the future! (2 calls if using dual port kiss)
.br
#
.br
# mycall vk5xxx-4
.br
# mycall2 vk5xxx-5
.br
#
.br
# In digi mode, you may use an alias. (2 for dual port)
.br
#
.br
# myalias svwdns
.br
# myalias2 svwdn2
.br
#
.br
# Send an ident every 540 seconds ...
.br
#
.br
# beacon after 540
.br
# btext ax25ip -- tncmode rob/vk5xxx -- Experimental AXIP gateway
.br
#
.br
# Serial port, ethertap interface, or pipe connected to a kissattach in my case
.br
# alternatively, if you have the kernel module bpqether:
.br
# if you use tun/tap or ethertap instead of kissattach you may say, without
.br
# leading slashes (!! - that's how ax25ipd consideres using the tty kiss
.br
# driver or tun/tap or ethertap):
.br
#   with tun/tap:
.br
#     device foobar
.br
#   with ethertap (obsolete):
.br
#     device tap0
.br
# make sure you set a mycall above, or say axparms foobar -setcall te1st
.br
# note: the device will be up when you assign an ip address
.br
# _after_ starting ax25rtd (which initializes the device), start ax25d
.br
# with bpqether or pty, you do not need to care about the speed
.br
# tun/tap: as descriped in /usr/src/linux/Documentatioa/networking/tuntap.txt,
.br
# make a device # like this:
.br
#   crw-r--r--    1 root     root      10, 200 Nov 26 13:32 tun
.br
# with the command mknod /dev/net/tun c 10 200
.br
# As serial port, you could assign physical ports like ttyS0 or ptys.
.br
# ax25ipd supports BSD-style pseudo-terminals as well as the Unix98 pty's.
.br
# If the tty argument is "/dev/ptmx", then Unix98 behaviour
.br
# will automaticaly take effekt. With Unix98 pty's, the slave tty name
.br
# could not be forseen. That's why ax25ipd will print the corresponding
.br
# slave pty name as a separate line on stdout.
.br
#
.br
#device ampr
.br
device /dev/ttyp0
.br
#
.br
# Set the device speed
.br
#
.br
speed 9600
.br
#
.br
# loglevel 0 - no output
.br
# loglevel 1 - config info only
.br
# loglevel 2 - major events and errors
.br
# loglevel 3 - major events, errors, and AX25 frame trace
.br
# loglevel 4 - all events
.br
# log 0 for the moment, syslog not working yet ...
.br
#
.br
loglevel 4
.br
#
.br
# If we are in digi mode, we might have a real tnc here, so use param to
.br
# set the tnc parameters ...
.br
#
.br
# param 1 20
.br
#
.br
# Broadcast Address definition. Any of the addresses listed will be forwarded
.br
# to any of the routes flagged as broadcast capable routes.
.br
#
.br
broadcast QST-0 NODES-0
.br
#
.br
# ax.25 route definition, define as many as you need.
.br
# format is route (call/wildcard) (ip host at destination)
.br
# ssid of 0 routes all ssid's
.br
#
.br
# route <destcall> <destaddr> [flags]
.br
#
.br
# Valid flags are:
.br
#         b  - allow broadcasts to be transmitted via this route
.br
#         d  - this route is the default route
.br
#
.br
route vk2sut-0 44.136.8.68 b
.br
route vk5asf 44.136.188.221 b
.br
route vk2abc 44.1.1.1 d
.br
#
.br
#
.br
.LP
More to come ...
.SH FILES
.LP
/etc/ax25/ax25ipd.conf
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ax25ipd (8).
