.TH KISSATTACH 8 "4 July 1999" Linux "Linux System Managers Manual"
.SH NAME
kissattach, spattach \- Attach a KISS or 6PACK interface
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kissattach [-b] [-6] [-l] [-m mtu] [-v] tty port [inetaddr]
.sp
.B spattach [-b] [-l] [-m mtu] [-v] tty port [inetaddr]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Attach a KISS or a 6PACK interface to what is normally a tty line connected
to a TNC in KISS or 6PACK mode. This program will turn itself into a
background process. To down an interface send its attach process a SIGTERM.
.LP
.B Kissattach
takes many of the parameters for the port from the axports(5) file. If the
speed parameter in the file is not equal to zero then it is used for the
serial port speed, a zero value means that no speed is set. The paclen
parameter is used for the device mtu unless overridden by a value on the
command line.
.LP
The tty argument will typically be that of a serial port with a KISS or 6PACK
TNC attached, although it could be a pseudo tty or a KISS port emulator such as
an SCC card. Kissattach supports BSD-style pseudo-terminals as well as
the Unix98 pty's. If the tty argument is "/dev/ptmx", then Unix98 behaviour
will automaticaly take effekt. With Unix98 pty's, the slave tty name
could not be forseen. That's why kissattach will print the corresponding slave
pty name as a separate line on stdout.
.LP
The port argument is the name of a port as given in the
axports(5) file.
.LP
The optional inetaddr argument is the IP address of the new interface. Some
time it was mandatory argument (although due to historical reasons this
restriction is lifted if the old -i option is used). But there's really not
a need for the interface to have an IP address assigned to.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 16
.BI "\-6"
Use the 6PACK line discipline instead of KISS. This is the default if
the program is called as spattach.
.TP 16
.BI "\-i inetaddr"
Set the internet address of the interface. This address may either be a
dotted decimal address or a host name. This option is now depreciated and
the program will complain about it, though still work.
.TP 16
.BI \-l
Log messages to the system log, the default is not to.
.TP 16
.BI \-b
Allow broadcasts on the interface (default no - because for e.g. samba
broadcasts are a pain..)
.TP 16
.BI "\-m mtu"
Sets the mtu of the interface. If this value is not given then the value is
taken from the paclen parameter in axports.
.TP 16
.BI \-v
Display the version.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR kill (1),
.BR stty (1),
.BR ax25 (4),
.BR axparms (4),
.BR axports (5),
.BR ifconfig (8).
.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Alan Cox GW4PTS <alan@cymru.net>
.br
Jonathan Naylor G4KLX <g4klx@g4klx.demon.co.uk>
.fi
