.TH M6PACK 8 "28 April 2002" Linux "Linux System Managers Manual"
.SH NAME
m6pack \- Attach multiples 6PACK interfaces
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B m6pack [-l] [-s speed] [-x n_ptmx] [-v] ttyinterface pty ..
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B m6pack
allows multiple 6PACK TNCs sharing the same serial port to be
used with the Linux AX.25 kernel software. The AX.25 softare has no support
for multiple TNCs sharing the same serial line. The
different ports are addressed by encoding the port number in the control
byte of every 6pack frame.
.B m6pack
watches a serial port, and routes 6pack frames to/from the pseudo ttys. The
other side of the pseudo ttys are then attached with
.B spattach
as normal.
.sp 1
Statistics about the operation of
.B m6pack
may be obtained by sending the SIGUSR1 signal to the running program. On
reception of such a signal
.B m6pack
will print a set of statistics to the system log if logging has been
enabled.
.sp 1
Although mention is made of using pseudo ttys as the last arguments,
these devices may be normal serial ports. However
.B m6pack
provides no way in which to set their speed, the speed must therefore be set
by some other method.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 10
.BI \-l
Enables system logging, the default is off.
.TP 10
.BI "\-s speed"
Set the speed of the serial port.
.TP 10
.BI \-v
Display the version.
.TP 10
.BI "\-x number"
This option is for Unix98 PTYs. It allocates "number" ptys; their names are written to stdout. When -x is used, the pty arguments are optional.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR spattach (8),
.BR ifconfig (8),
.BR kill (1).
.SH AUTHORS
Iñaki Arenaza EB2EBU <iarenaza@escomposlinux.org>, based in the work by:
.br
Tomi Manninen OH2BNS <oh2bns@sral.fi>
.br
Jonathan Naylor G4KLX <g4klx@g4klx.demon.co.uk>
.br
Kevin Uhlir N0BEL <kevinu@flochart.com>
