.TH ROSE 4 "27 August 1996" Linux "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
AF_ROSE \- Rose amateur packet radio protocol family
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B Rose
is a protocol used extensively by radio amateurs. The Linux
Rose protocol family permits access to these protocols via
the standard networking
.B socket
metaphor.
.LP
The Rose protocol layer only supports connected mode.
.LP
The only mode of operation is connected mode which is the mode used for a
socket of type SOCK_SEQPACKET (stream sockets are not available in Rose).
This requires that the user ensures output data is suitably packetised, and
that input data is read a packet at a time into a buffer of suitable size.
.LP
Rose addresses consist of 10 digits. These are encoded into a sockaddr_rose
structure which is provided to the relevant system calls.
.LP
Rose has some unusual properties. Notably in a multi-user system an AX.25
address is often associated with a user, and some users may not have such an
association. a set of ioctl calls are provided to manage an association
table.
.LP 
Rose supports the following socket options for SOL_ROSE. ROSE_T1 is the
T11/T21 timer in 1/10ths of a second, ROSE_T2 is the T12/T22 timer in
1/10ths of a second. ROSE_T3, is the T13/T23 timer in 1/10ths of a second.
It is possible for an application to request that the Rose layer return
the Rose header as well as the application data, this is done via the
ROSE_HDRINCL socket option.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR call (1),
.BR socket (2),
.BR setsockopt(2),
.BR getsockopt(2),
.BR rsports (5),
.BR rsparms (8).
.LP
.SH AUTHOR
Jonathan Naylor G4KLX <g4klx@g4klx.demon.co.uk>
