.TH AXPORTS 5 "2008-Feb-04" Linux "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
.I /etc/ax25/axports
\- AX.25 port configuration file.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.I axports
is an ASCII file that contains information about each of the physical AX.25
ports that are to be used.
When dealing with an AX.25 utility such as
.BR call ,
it takes an argument that is the port name.
This port name is a reference to the line within
.B axports,
which has that name as its first argument.
The information on each line contains enough information to bind
the command to a particular physical AX.25 interface, this binding
is done by matching the callsign on the line in
.B axports
with the callsign of the port set by
.B kissattach.
.LP
The lines within
.I axports
must either be a comment line, which starts with a # in the first column,
or a port description in the following format, each field being delimited
by white space:
.sp
.RS
name callsign speed paclen window description
.RE
.sp
The field descriptions are:
.sp
.RS
.TP 14
.B name
is the unique identifier of the port.
This is the name given as the port argument of many of the AX.25 support
programs.
This is
.I not
in any way related to actual device identities, just unique
.TP 14
.B callsign
the callsign of the physical interface to bind to.
.TP 14
.B speed
this is the speed of interface, a value of zero means that no speed will be
set by kissattach(8).
.TP 14
.B paclen
is the default maximum packet size for this interface.
.TP 14
.B window
the default window size for this interface.
.TP 14
.B description
a free format description of this interface, this field extends to the end
of the line. This field may contain spaces.
.RE
.SH FILES
.LP
/etc/ax25/axports
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR call (1),
.BR ax25 (4),
.BR axparms (8),
.BR kissattach (8).
