.TH AXSPAWN.CONF 5 "2 August 1996" Linux "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
axspawn.conf \- Control the operation of axspawn.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The
.B axspawn.conf
file controls the operation of the axspawn(8) program. The operation of the
config file can best be seen in an example:
.LP
.RS
# this is /etc/ax25/axspawn.conf
.br
#
.br
# allow automatic creation of user accounts
.br
create    yes
.br
# allow empty password field (so user may login via telnet, too) [default no]
.br
create_empty_password       no
.br
#create_empty_password       yes
.br
# create with system utility useradd(8)? [default no]
.br
#create_with_useradd  no
.br
create_with_useradd  yes
.br
#
.br
# pwcheck method: password or call or group. [default: password]
.br
#pwcheck call
.br
#pwcheck group
.br
pwcheck password
.br
#
.br
# guest user if above is 'no' or everything else
.br
# fails. Disable with "no"
.br
guest     guest
.br
#
.br
# group id or name for autoaccount
.br
group     hams
.br
#
.br
# first user id to use
.br
first_uid 400
.br
#
.br
# maximum user id
.br
max_uid   2000
.br
#
.br
# where to add the home directory for the new user
.br
home      /home/hams
.br
#
.br
# secure homedirectories (g-rwx)
.br
#secure_home yes
.br
#
.br
# user's shell
.br
shell     /bin/bash
.br
#
.br
# bind user id to callsign for outgoing connects.
.br
associate yes
.RE
.LP
The \(lqassociate\(rq option has to be used with great care. If a user logs
on it removes any existing callsign from the translation table for this
userid and replaces it with the callsign and SSID of the user. This will
happen with multiple connects (same callsign, different SSIDs), too. Unless
you want your users to be able to call out from your machine disable
\(lqassociate\(rq.
.SH FILES
.LP
/etc/ax25/axspawn.conf
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR axspawn (8).
