.TH KISSPARMS 8 "15 October 1996" Linux "Linux System Managers Manual"
.SH NAME
kissparms \- Configure KISS TNCs.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kissparms [-c crc-type] -p <port> [-f y|n] [-h hw] [-l txtail] [-r pers] [-s slot] [-t txd] [-e feclevel] [-v] [-x] [-X raw] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B Kissparms
is used to dynamically configure KISS TNCs that have been setup for AX.25
use by
.B kissattach.
This program uses the packet interface to allow it to communicate with the
KISS TNC without interrupting the AX.25 data stream. Therefore the KISS
parameters may be set at any time during the operation of the AX.25 port.
.LP
A full description of the KISS protocol can be found in the ARRL 6th Computer
Networking Conference papers pp 38-43. While use of the Tx Tail value is
now deprecated, it has been included to satisfy the requirements of users of
old TNC firmware.
.LP
Although this utility was originally designed for controlling KISS TNCs
connected to a serial port, it is used by a number of other Linux packet
radio devices such as the Z8530 SCC driver for controlling their parameters
in exactly the same manner. Therefore
.B kissparms
functionality extends to more than KISS TNCs.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 12
.BI "\-c crc-type"
Sets the crc-type to use. For e.g. kernel mkiss: 0 = auto, 1 = none, 2 = flexnet, 3 = smack
.TP 12
.BI "\-p port"
Sets the port that is being configured.
.TP 12
.BI "\-f y|n"
This sets the TNC into either full duplex ``y'', or half duplex ``n'' mode.
.TP 12
.BI "\-h hardware"
This is used to set hardware specific parameters.
.TP 12
.BI "\-e FEC error correction level"
Sets the FEC error correction level in a DSP card based modem (KISS parameter
8). Larger correction level means better noise resistance, but slower
throughput on a good connection. This is an experimental feature found in a
QPSK modem for the Motorola DSP56001 based DSP4 and EVM cards only.
.TP 12
.BI "\-l txtail"
Sets the TX Tail time in milliseconds. Note that the command to the TNC only
operates in steps of ten milliseconds, so only use values like 10, 20 etc.
.TP 12
.BI "\-r persist"
Sets the persist value. This parameter is scaled to the range 0 to 255.
.TP 12
.BI "\-s slottime"
Sets the slottime in milliseconds. Note that the command to the TNC only
operates in steps of ten milliseconds, so only use values like 10, 20 etc.
.TP 12
.BI "\-t txdelay"
Sets the TX Delay in milliseconds. Note that the command to the TNC only
operates in steps of ten milliseconds, so only use values like 10, 20 etc.
.TP 12
.BI \-v
Display the version.
.TP 12
.BI \-x
Takes the TNC out of KISS mode back into ``normal'' mode. This command is
manufacturer specific but works in many cases. This option overrides all
options except the port number.
.TP 12
.BI \-X raw
Sends the specified raw value to the kiss driver.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR axports (5),
.BR kissattach (8).
.SH AUTHOR
Jonathan Naylor G4KLX <g4klx@g4klx.demon.co.uk>
