.TH AX25RTCTL 8 "11 November 2003" Linux "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
ax25rtctl \- AX.25 routing control program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ax25rtctl [options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B ax25rtctl
is a program to control ax25rtd. There are several options:
.TP
.B -a, --add ax25 <callsign> <dev> <time> [digipeater]
Add an entry to the AX.25 routing table. If time is "0"
this entry will be marked permanent, hence: the daemon will not
overwrite this route.
.TP
.B -d, --del ax25 <callsign> <dev>
Remove an entry from the AX.25 routing table.
.TP
.B -a, --add ip <ip> <dev> <time> <call> <ipmode>
Add an entry to the IP routing table. If time is "0" the
entry will be marked permanent.
.TP
.B -d, --del ip <ip>
Remove an entry from the IP routing table.
.TP
.B -l, --list ax25
Lists the content of the cache for the AX.25 routing table.
.TP
.B -l, --list ip
Lists the content of the cache for the IP routing table.
.TP
.B -e, --expire <minutes>
Removes the entries older than <minutes> from the caches and
the kernel routing tables.
.TP
.B -s, --save
Saves the AX.25 and IP cache to /var/ax25/ax25rtd/ax25_routes and
/var/ax25/ax25rtd/ip_routes (or the files specified in
/etc/ax25/ax25rtd.conf).
.TP
.B -r, --reload
Reloads the config file /etc/ax25/ax25rtd.conf. This will
*not* affect the caches or the heard list.
.TP
.B -q, --shutdown
Same as 'killall -TERM ax25rtd' ;-)
.TP
.B -V, --version
Prints version.
.PP
Note that you can specify either the port name (as defined in
/etc/ax25/axports) or the interface name (shown by ifconfig). If names
conflict (i.e. port scc0 is in fact interface scc3, and vica versa), the
interface name has precedence over the port name.  Example:

   ax25rtctl --add ax25 dl0tha scc3 0 db0pra

is equivalent to

   ax25rtctl --add ax25 dl0tha 9k6 0 dbpra

All commands return port names in their output, though.
With one exception: ax25_routes and ip_routes use interface names.

.SH FILES
/etc/ax25/ax25rtd.conf
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ax25rtd.conf (5),
.BR ax25rtd (8).
.LP
.SH AUTHORS
.nf
Joerg Reuter <jreuter@poboxes.com>
.br
Llaus Kudielka OE1KIB
.fi
