.TH CALL 1 "27 August 1996" Linux "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
call \- make an AX.25, NET/ROM or Rose connection.
.SH SYNOPSIS
For AX.25
.br
.B call [-b l|e] [-d] [-h] [-m s|e] [-p paclen] [-s mycall] [-r] [-t] [-T timeout] [-v] [-w window] [-W] port callsign [[via] digipeaters.....]
.sp 1
For NET/ROM
.br
.B call [-d] [-h] [-p paclen] [-r] [-t] [-v] port callsign
.sp 1
For Rose
.br
.B call [-d] [-h] [-r] [-t] [-v] port callsign address [[via] digipeater]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B Call
is the general purpose AX.25, NET/ROM and Rose connection program. As is normal
in AX.25 it runs entirely in line mode. All CR/LF translation is done
transparently. The program provides ASCII, YAPP, YAPP-C and 7+ file
transfer facilities. Some of the options are only valid in AX.25 mode,
the program will quietly ignore them if given in NET/ROM mode or in Rose
mode.
.LP
This version of
.B call
incorporates many changes that include a much improved user interface. The
port name is mandatory and is the name of the port which the connection will
be made on. The port name may be either an AX.25, a NET/ROM port or a Rose
port,
.B call
will determine which automatically.
.LP
When using NET/ROM the use of digipeaters is meaningless and is not
supported. However when using Rose up to one digipeater may be specified, as
well as the Rose address of the distant node and the callsign of the remote
station. The Rose address must be ten digits long and it must exist in the
Rose node tables. For Rose connects to work
.B axparms
must have been used to set a callsign/uid mapping for the userid in use.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 10
.BI "\-b l|e"
Sets the method of backoff to use with AX.25 connections. The default is
taken from the port specification, but can be overridden by this option.
Valid values are
.B l
for linear backoff, and
.B e
for exponential backoff.
.TP 10
.BI \-d
Turn on socket level debugging.
.TP 10
.BI \-h
Selects Slave mode.
.TP 10
.BI "\-m s|e"
Sets the AX.25 mode to use. The default is taken from the port
specification, but can be overridden by this option. Valid values are
.B s
for normal (modulus 8) AX.25 operation, or
.B e
for extended (modulus 128) AX.25 operation.
.TP 10
.BI "\-p paclen"
Specify a specific maximum amount of data to be sent in each AX.25 packet. 
.TP 10
.BI "\-s mycall"
Connect using the specified source call (you may need to be root).
.TP 10
.BI \-R
Disable all remote commands like autobin (#BIN#), 7plus downloads, //echo, etc.
This is useful for scripting where you just don't like the remote site to trigger uncaught conditions here.
.TP 10
.BI \-S
Be silent. Useful for using call in shellscripts (together with option \-r) in order to be really transparent.
.TP 10
.BI "\-T timeout"
Set idle timeout seconds after a connection will be closed automaticaly when there's no data being transferred (in- and outbound). If timeout is set to 3600, the connection will close after 1h inactivity. A value of 0.5 is 500ms.
.TP 10
.BI \-r
Selects Raw mode.
.TP 10
.BI \-t
Selects Talk mode.
.TP 10
.BI \-v
Display the version.
.TP 10
.BI "\-w window"
Specify a specific AX.25 window for this connection. Only valid in AX.25 mode.
.TP 10
.BI "\-W"
Wait for remote disconnect even if stdin is closed. Normaly, "echo q | call ax0 db0fhn" closes immediately after "echo q" terminates; thus we never see the greeting from db0fhn. With the -W option, call waits until the ax25-connection is disconnected (i.e. db0fhn disconnects after "q" command). Very useful for scripting. You might like to combine it with the -T option.
.LP
The call program interprets lines beginning with a '~' specially.
The following '~' escapes are available.
.TP 16
.BI ~?
List escapes
.TP 16
.BI ~~
A ~ symbol
.TP 16
.BI ~.
Close connection
.TP 16
.BI "~! [command]"
Run a command
.TP 16
.BI ~0
Change to Raw mode
.TP 16
.BI ~1
Change to Slave mode
.TP 16
.BI ~2
Change to Talk mode
.TP 16
.BI ~a
Start a file transfer (Autobin)
.TP 16
.BI ~b
Start a file transfer (Binary)
.TP 16
.BI ~c
Close the logfile
.TP 16
.BI ~h
List escapes
.TP 16
.BI "~o [filename]"
Open a logfile (default 'logfile.txt')
.TP 16
.BI ~r
Reconnect to remote station
.TP 16
.BI ~s
Stop an upload
.TP 16
.BI "~u [filename]"
Upload a file (ASCII upload)
.TP 16
.BI "~yu [filename]"
Upload a file (YAPP upload)
.TP 16
.BI "~yd [filename]"
Download a file (YAPP download)
.TP 16
.BI ~z
Suspend program
.LP
The program provides no terminal emulation features. These are left
up to the console facilities of the terminal in use. The program is 
however '8 bit clean'.
.SH FILES
.nf
/proc/net/nr_nodes
.br
/proc/net/rose_nodes
.br
/etc/ax25/axports
.br
/etc/ax25/nrports
.br
/etc/ax25/rsports
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR listen (1),
.BR mheard (1),
.BR ax25 (4),
.BR netrom (4),
.BR rose (4),
.BR axports (5),
.BR nrports (5),
.BR rsports (5),
.BR axparms (8),
.BR nrparms (8),
.BR rsparms (8).
.SH AUTHORS
.nf
Alexander Tietzel DG6XA <TIETZE_A@etech.fh-hamburg.de>
.br
Joerg Reuter DL1BKE <jreuter@poboxes.com>
.br
Alan Cox GW4PTS <alan@cymru.net>
.br
Jonathan Naylor G4KLX <g4klx@g4klx.demon.co.uk>
.br
Steve Henson G6IXS <shenson@nyx.cs.du.edu>
.fi
