.TH TTYLINKD 8 "5 March 1997" Linux "Linux System Managers Manual"
.SH NAME
ttylinkd \- TTYlink daemon for AX.25, NET/ROM, ROSE and IP. 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ttylinkd [-hv] [-c callsign] [-f file]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B ttylinkd
is a simple daemon that allows incoming ttylink calls to be routed through
to Linux's normal talkd(8)
system and provides a pipe between the two.
.LP
.B ttylinkd 
is usually setup to be spawned from ax25d(8) or inetd(8)
but can, since version 0.03, be used on the command line, although
talk(1) is a much better idea for interactive users.
.LP 
Use splitscreen(1)
for outgoing ttylink sessions.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 10
.BI \-v
Display the version.
.TP 10
.BI \-h
Display some help and information on it.
.TP 10
.BI "\-c callsign"
Disable callsign checking and use the given callsign for a name for this
end of the link.
.TP 10
.BI "\-f file"
Use <file> for the configuration file, instead of the default
/etc/ax25/ttylinkd.conf
.SH FILES
.LP
/etc/ax25/ttylinkd.conf  the configuration file for ttylinkd
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR talk (1),
.BR splitscreen (1),
.BR ttylinkd.conf (5),
.BR ax25d (8),
.BR inetd (8),
.BR talkd (8).
.SH BUGS
.LP
There is still some need for some checking of who is still logged on.  
.LP
The daemon may hang if you disconnect from it strangely.
.LP
There is no real way of working out what is going on with talkd.
.LP
If you do not have a talk daemon going on the specified host then the program
will tend to sit there and do nothing.
.SH AUTHOR
Craig Small VK2XLZ <csmall@small.dropbear.id.au>
