.TH INET 3  "2008-Feb-04" "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
.B ax25_aton, ax25_aton_entry, ax25_aton_arglist,
.B ax25_ntoa, ax25_cmp, ax25_validate
\- AX25 Address manipulation routines
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <netax25/ax25.h>
.PP
.BI "int ax25_aton(const char *" cp ", struct full_sockaddr_ax25 *" fsap ");"
.PP
.BI "int ax25_aton_arglist(const char **" cp ", struct full_sockaddr_ax25 *" fsap ");"
.PP
.BI "int ax25_aton_entry(const char *" cp ", char *" axp ");"
.PP
.BI "char *ax25_ntoa(ax25_address *" axp ");"
.PP
.BI "int ax25_cmp(ax25_address *" ax1 ", ax25_address *" ax2 ");"
.PP
.BI "int ax25_validate(char *" axp ");"
.PP 
.BI "char *ax25_config_file(const char *filename);"
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR ax25_aton ()
takes the ASCII string
.I cp
that is in the format
.I callsign
.RI [[ V | VIA ] callsign "...]"
and stores it in
.I fsap
in network format. 
.PP
.BR ax25_aton_entry ()
takes the ASCII string of a callsign
.I cp
and stores it in network format in
.I axp.
.PP
The 
.BR ax25_aton_arglist ()
takes a NULL terminated array of strings
.I cp
and stores it in
.I fsap
in network format.
.PP
The
.BR ax25_ntoa ()
takes a network format address
.I axp
and returns the ASCII representation.
The string is returned in a statically allocated buffer, which
subsequent calls will overwrite.
.PP
The
.BR ax25_cmp ()
function compares the two ax25 addresses,
.I ax1
and
.IR ax2 ,
that are in network format and determines wether they are identical,
differ only by their SSIDs or are different.
.PP
The
.BR ax25_validate ()
function checks to see if the address
.I axp
in network format is a correctly formatted address.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
The
.BR ax25_aton () and
.BR ax25_aton_arglist ()
functions return -1 if an error occurs otherwise the length of
the returned structure.
.PP
The
.BR ax25_aton_entry ()
function returns -1 if an error occurs otherwise zero.
.PP
The
.BR ax25_cmp ()
function returns 0 if the two addresses are identical, 1 if they are
different or 2 is only the SSIDs are different.
.PP
The
.BR ax25_validate ()
function returns TRUE if the callsign is valid or FALSE if it is not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ax25 "(4), " netrom "(4), " rose "(4)"
