.TH AX25D.CONF 5 "17 January 1997" Linux "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
ax25d.conf \- ax25d configuration file.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B Ax25d.conf
controls the functioning of
.B ax25d.
Its purpose is to specify on which ports to listen on, which applications
are available, and to whom they are available to. The configuration file is
common to both AX.25, NET/ROM and Rose and their is similarity between the
two parts of the file.
.sp 1
The general layout for an entry for a given port is as follows:
.sp 1
.RS
interface control
.br
callsign entry 1
.br
 .
.br
 .
.br
callsign entry n
.RE
.sp 1
The
.B "interface control"
line determines which port and callsigns apply to the following
.B "callsign entry"
lines, until the next
.B "interface control"
is read. There are four different variants of the
.B "interface control"
line:
.sp 1
.RS
1. [AX.25 Port Name]
.br
2. [Callsign VIA AX.25 Port Name]
.br
3. <NET/ROM Port Name>
.br
4. {Callsign VIA Rose Port Name}
.RE
.sp 1
Version 1 allows the following
.B "callsign entry"
lines to listen on the AX.25 port specified by the AX.25 port name using the
default callsign of that AX.25 port.
.sp 1
Version 2 allows the following
.B "callsign entry"
lines to listen on the AX.25 port specified by the AX.25 port name using the
callsign specified instead of the default callsign of that AX.25 port.
Specifying a * for the AX.25 port name allows the following
.B "callsign entries"
to be valid for all the operating AX.25 ports using the callsign specified. VIA
can be abbreviated to just V. If the callsign has an asterisk appended to it
then the system will be listening on the port with the callsign, but as a
pseudo-digipeater instead of being the normal destination callsign.
.sp 1
Version 3 allows the following
.B "callsign entry"
lines to listen on the NET/ROM port specified by the NET/ROM port name using
the default callsign of that NET/ROM port.
.sp 1
Version 4 allows the following
.B "callsign entry"
lines to listen on the Rose port using the specified Rose port name using
the callsign specified as the service access point (SAP). A * may be
specified for a callsign to allow matching to any incoming Call Requests
with any SAP.
.sp 1
The
.B "callsign entry"
lines have a similar layout for both AX.25, NET/ROM and Rose, the layout is:
.sp 1
.RS
peer window t1 t2 t3 idle n2 mode uid exec args...
.RE
.sp 1
All values must be entered for all entries even when they are not used (ie
window for NET/ROM, just enter a * instead), The meanings of each of the
fields is given below. All timings apart from the idle value are given in
seconds, the idle values is given in minutes.
.RS
.TP 10
.B peer
This specifies the callsign of the remote end of the connection that should
have the following parameters and executable set up for them. The syntax of
the peer argument is explained below.
.TP 10
.B window
This sets the the value of the window size, if a value of * is entered in this
field then the default value for the port is taken from the \(lqparameters\(rq
entry (see below) or lacking such an entry, the kernel default value is used.
This entry is used by AX.25 but not by NET/ROM or Rose.
.TP 10
.B t1
This sets the the value of the T1 timer, if a value of * is entered in this
field then the default value for the port is taken from the \(lqparameters\(rq
entry (see below) or lacking such an entry, the kernel default value is used.
This entry is used by both AX.25 and NET/ROM but not by Rose.
.TP 10
.B t2
This sets the the value of the T2 timer, if a value of * is entered in this
field then the default value for the port is taken from the \(lqparameters\(rq
entry (see below) or lacking such an entry, the kernel default value is used.
This entry is used by both AX.25 and NET/ROM but not by Rose.
.TP 10
.B t3
This sets the the value of the T3 timer, if a value of * is entered in this
field then the default value for the port is taken from the \(lqparameters\(rq
entry (see below) or lacking such an entry, the kernel default value is used.
This entry is used by AX.25 but not by NET/ROM or Rose.
.TP 10
.B idle
This sets the the value of the idle timer, if a value of * is entered in
this field then the default value for the port is taken from the
\(lqparameters\(rq entry (see below) or lacking such an entry, the kernel
default value is used.
.TP 10
.B n2
This sets the the value of the N2 counter, if a value of * is entered in this
field then the default value for the port is taken from the \(lqparameters\(rq
entry (see below) or lacking such an entry, the kernel default value is used.
This entry is used by both AX.25 and NET/ROM but not by Rose.
.TP 10
.B mode
This is a set of flags that control the various properties associated with
the incoming connection. The flags are single letters, may be in either
upper or lower case, and there may not be any spaces between them. If no
flags are to be specified either a 0, - or a * must be entered instead. The
valid mode flag letters are:
.RS
.TP 5
.B D
Do not allow connections that have passed via any digi-peaters. AX.25 only.
.TP 5
.B L
Do not allow this station to connect, they are Locked out.
.TP 5
.B N
Check that the NET/ROM neighbour is allowed, currently unused.
.TP 5
.B Q
Do not make an entry into the log file for this connection.
.TP 5
.B V
Validate the callsign of the incoming connection, currently unused.
.RE
.TP 10
.B uid
This is the userid that the following command should run under when
executing.
.TP 10
.B exec
This is the executable that should be executed when an incoming connection
matches the criteria of both the
.B "interface control"
and the
.B "callsign entry".
.TP 10
.B args...
These are the optional arguments that are passed to the executable. All of
the arguments are passed literally apart from the following:
.RS
.TP 5
.B %d
The name of the port that the connection is on.
.TP 5
.B %U
The username (callsign) of the remote station in upper case without the SSID.
.TP 5
.B %u
The username (callsign) of the remote station in lower case without the SSID.
.TP 5
.B %S
The username (callsign) of the remote station in upper case with the SSID.
.TP 5
.B %s
The username (callsign) of the remote station in lower case with the SSID.
.TP 5
.B %P
The nodename of the remote station in upper case without the SSID.
This is only valid under NET/ROM and Rose, under AX.25 a % is substituted instead.
.TP 5
.B %p
The nodename of the remote station in lower case without the SSID.
This is only valid under NET/ROM and Rose, under AX.25 a % is substituted instead.
.TP 5
.B %R
The nodename of the remote station in upper case with the SSID.
This is only valid under NET/ROM and Rose, under AX.25 a % is substituted instead.
.TP 5
.B %r
The nodename of the remote station in lower case with the SSID.
This is only valid under NET/ROM and Rose, under AX.25 a % is substituted instead.
.TP 5
.B %%
A %.
.RE
.RE
.sp 1
The
.B peer
argument is dependant upon whether AX.25, NET/ROM or Rose is being used. There are
five formats of this argument:
.sp 1
.RS
1. default
.br
2. parameters
.br
3. callsign
.br
4. callsign@node
.br
5. @node
.RE
.sp 1
The first version is used by AX.25, NET/ROM and Rose to specify that all callsigns
on a given port are to be matched. The default line is usually the last of the
.B "callsign entry"
lines, so that more specific entries may have the chance to be matched
first.
.sp 1
The second version is not a
.B "callsign entry"
that is used by any incoming connections. It is a means to specify default
values for parameters such as Window, T1, T2, T3, Idle and N2. It is used for
both AX.25, NET/ROM and Rose.
.sp 1
The third version is used by both AX.25, NET/ROM and Rose to specify the callsign of
the remote station to match the
.B "callsign entry"
line. If no SSID is specified then the callsign will be matched with any
that has the same callsign and any SSID. Specifying an SSID causes the
callsign to be matched exactly. In the case of NET/ROM and Rose this entry does not
specify which node the originating callsign comes from.
.sp 1
The fourth version is used by NET/ROM and Rose to specify the callsign of the remote
station and the remote node to match the
.B "callsign entry"
line. If no SSID is specified in the callsign section then the callsign will
be matched with any that has the same callsign and any SSID. Specifying an
SSID causes the callsign to be matched exactly.
.sp 1
The fifth version is used by NET/ROM and Rose to specify only the address of the
remote node to match the
.B "callsign entry"
line. This entry will mean that all remote users at the given node will
match the entry.
.sp 1
Comments may be embedded in the configuration file by placing a # in the
first column.
.sp 1
ax25d can now honour AX.25 TCP/IP mode-VC connections in a special way.
Therefore, a new port specific option "parameters_extAX25" is available, with
the following options, which are seperated by space.
.TP 5
parameters_extAX25
VC-debug
.br
VC-reject-login|VC-wait-login|VC-login-ok
.br
VC-disc-on-linkfailure-msg, VC-send-failure-msg, VC-log-connections
.br
Recommended settings in ax25d.conf:
.br
  parameters_extAX25 VC-wait-login VC-disc-on-linkfailure-msg VC-log-connections
.br
or
.br
  parameters_extAX25 VC-reject-login VC-send-failure-msg VC-log-connections
.br

.SH FILES
.LP
/etc/ax25/ax25d.conf
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ax25 (4),
.BR netrom (4),
.BR rose (4),
.BR axports (5),
.BR nrports (5),
.BR rsports (5),
.BR ax25d (8).
