.TH AX25_CALL 8 "4 July 1999" Linux "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
ax25_call, netrom_call, rose_call, tcp_call \- make an AX.25, NET/ROM,
ROSE or TCP connection
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ax25_call [-c] [-i paclen] [-o paclen] port local_call remote_call [digipeaters ...]
.sp
.B netrom_call [-c] [-i paclen] [-o paclen] port local_call remote_netrom_addr
.sp
.B rose_call [-c] [-i paclen] [-o paclen] port local_call remote_call remote_rose_addr
.sp
.B tcp_call [-c] [-i paclen] [-o paclen] remote_addr remote_port
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B ax25_call, netrom_call, rose_call and tcp_call
establish an AX.25, NET/ROM, ROSE or a TCP connection in a manner
suitable for calling from either the
.B ax25d
program directly, or from the
.B node
program as an external command. By setting the command line arguments
appropriately it is possible to set the local callsign from which the call
will be made. No translation of the end of lines is performed by this
program.
.sp
For
.B netrom_call
the  remote_netrom_addr  parameter may either be in the form of a single
callsign or as a NET/ROM alias  and  callsign  pair separated by
colon. For example NMCLUS:GB7BPQ. 
.sp
For
.B rose_call
the remote_rose_addr  parameter  must be in the form of a ten digit
ROSE address.
.sp
For
.B tcp_call
the remote_addr parameter must be a dotted-quad IP address or a
hostname and the remote_port must be a service name (see services(5))
or a port number.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 12
.BI \-c
Enables zlib based compression on the incoming connection. Compression
algorithm is the same as in LinuxNode (see node(8)).
.TP 12
.BI "\-i paclen"
The maximum frame length to be used on the incoming connection. The
default is 256 for ax25_call and rose_call, 236 for netrom_call and
1024 for tcp_call.
.TP 12
.BI "\-o paclen"
The maximum frame length to be used on the outgoing connection. The
default is 256 for ax25_call and rose_call, 236 for netrom_call and
1024 for tcp_call.
.SH FILES
.br
/etc/ax25/axports
.br
/etc/ax25/nrports
.br
/etc/ax25/rsports
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ax25(4), netrom(4), rose(4), tcp(4).
.SH AUTHOR
Jonathan Naylor G4KLX <g4klx@g4klx.demon.co.uk>
.br
Tomi Manninen OH2BNS <oh2bns@sral.fi>
