.TH BEACON 8 "10 February 1997" Linux "Linux System Managers Manual"
.SH NAME
beacon \- transmit periodic messages on an AX.25 port.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B beacon [-c <src_call>] [-d <dest_call>[digi ..]] [-l] [-m] [-s] [-t interval] [-v] port \(lqmessage\(rq
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B Beacon
transmits the message text on an AX.25 port every thirty minutes. The message
is addressed to \(lqIDENT\(rq and is sent using the AX.25 callsign of the port
specified on the command line. Typically the message text will contain
spaces and/or other characters, therefore the message text should be
enclosed in quotes to ensure they are passed to the
.B beacon
program untranslated.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 16
.BI \-c
Configure the source callsign for beacons. The default is to use the
interface callsign.
.TP 16
.BI \-d
Configure the destination callsign for beacons. The default is \(lqIDENT\(rq.
Optional: Digipeaters may follow, separated with spaces. Use \-d "DEST DIGI1 DIGI2 .."
.TP 16
.BI \-l
Enables the logging of errors to the system log, the default is off.
.TP 16
.BI \-m
Changes the destination address to \(lqMAIL\(rq and sends the message text
once only. This option overrides any destination callsign given with the \-d option.
.TP 16
.BI \-s
Sends the message text once only.
.TP 16
.BI "\-t interval"
The time interval between messages, the interval is given in minutes and the
default is thirty minutes.
.TP 16
.BI \-v
Display the version.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ax25 (4),
.BR axports (5).
.SH AUTHORS
.nf
Alan Cox GW4PTS <alan@cymru.net>
.br
Jonathan Naylor G4KLX <g4klx@g4klx.demon.co.uk>
.br
David Brooke G6GZH <db@fusk.demon.co.uk>
.fi
