.TH MHEARD 1 "19 August 1996" Linux "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
mheard \- display AX.25 calls recently heard.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mheard [-d cmns] [-n] [-o cfpt] [-v] [port...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B Mheard
displays information about most recently heard AX.25 callsigns, the interface
upon which they were heard, the total packets heard, the time
at which the last one was heard and other information.
.B Mheard
displays different information, in different orders depending on the
settings of the arguments. Information on specific ports can be displayed by
giving the port names as arguments.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 13
.BI "\-d cmns"
Sets the information that is displayed for each AX.25 callsign heard. The
different arguments are:
.RS
.TP 5
.BI c
Display all the information with regard to callsigns, from-callsign,
to-callsign, port name, and any digipeaters that may be in use.
.TP 5
.BI m
Display miscellaneous information, the from-callsign, port name, no frames
heard, the last type of frames heard, and which different PIDs have been
heard from that station.
.TP 5
.BI n
Display the default information. This is the from-callsign, port name, no frames
heard and the date and time last heard.
.TP 5
.BI s
Displays statistics about the station heard, the from-callsign, port name,
no I frames, no S frames, no U frames, time first heard, and time last
heard.
.RE
.TP 13
.BI \-n
Supress the displaying of titles.
.TP 13
.BI "\-o cfpt"
Sets the ordering of the information displayed. The meanings of the
different arguments are:
.RS
.TP 5
.BI c
Sort list by from-callsign.
.TP 5
.BI f
Sort list by number of frames heard.
.TP 5
.BI p
Sort list by port name.
.TP 5
.BI t
Sort list by the time last heard, this is the default.
.RE
.TP 13
.BI \-v
Display the version.
.SH FILES
.LP
/var/ax25/mheard/mheard.dat
.br
/etc/ax25/axports
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ax25 (4),
.BR mheardd (8).
.SH AUTHOR
Jonathan Naylor G4KLX <g4klx@g4klx.demon.co.uk>
