.TH RIP98D 8 "20 August 1996" Linux "Linux System Managers Manual"
.SH NAME
rip98d \- Send and receive RIP98 routing messages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rip98d [-d] [-l] [-r] [-t interval] [-v]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The RIP98 routing protocol was devised by John Wiseman G8BPQ as an
alternative to both traditional RIP and RSPF for use in an RF environment.
Its main advantage is that each routing element only takes six bytes and is
therefore much more efficient in terms of bandwidth than other routing
protocols.
.LP
In operation
.B rip98d
that each neighbour that also uses RIP98 must be listed. RIP98 is not a
broadcast protocol and each neighbour is individually contacted. Any
incoming RIP98 message is also validated against this list. The list of
neighbours is held in /etc/ax25/rip98d.conf, and each line is
either the name or the dotted decimal IP address of the neighbour.
.LP
The time interval between RIP98 transmissions is set to one hour by default
but other intervals can be set with the \-t option. The routes advertised
and received can be restricted by the \-r option which only allows
processing of ampr.org addresses. At present
.B rip98d
is under development and any feedback on its operation would be welcome.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 16
.BI \-d
Set debugging on. Information is only output if the logging option is also
enabled.
.TP 16
.BI \-l
Enable logging to the system log, the default is off.
.TP 16
.BI \-r
Restricts the transmitting and receiving of routes to ampr.org (44.x.x.x)
addresses only.
.TP 16
.BI "\-t interval"
The time interval between routing broadcasts, in minutes. The default is 60
minutes.
.TP 16
.BI \-v
Display the version.
.SH FILES
.nf
/proc/net/route
.br
/etc/ax25/rip98d.conf
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR rip98.conf (5),
.BR arp (8),
.BR ifconfig (8),
.BR route (8).
.SH AUTHOR
Jonathan Naylor G4KLX <g4klx@g4klx.demon.co.uk>
